# Prevention of Sexual Harrassment


### What kinds of behaviour cause sexual harassment?

### The following are some common types of behaviors that may cause sexual harassment:

1. Unwanted Sexual Advances: This includes any explicit or implicit proposals for sexual activity that are 
unwelcome and make the recipient uncomfortable.

2. Sexual Comments or Jokes: Making sexually explicit comments, telling offensive jokes, or using sexually 
suggestive language can create a hostile environment for others.

3. Inappropriate Touching or Gestures: Any unwelcome physical contact, such as touching, hugging, or making 
inappropriate gestures of a sexual nature, can be considered harassment.

4. Sexual Intimidation or Coercion: Using one's position of power or authority to pressure someone into 
engaging in sexual activities or to create a hostile environment is a form of harassment.

5. Sexual Display of Images or Objects: Displaying explicit or pornographic material in public spaces or 
sharing such content without consent can be considered harassment.

6. Sexual Comments About Appearance: Making offensive comments about someone's appearance, body, or clothing 
in a sexual manner is inappropriate and constitutes harassment.

7. Stalking or Unwanted Pursuit: Repeatedly following, watching, or contacting someone against their will, 
especially in a sexual or romantic context, is a form of harassment.

8. Online Sexual Harassment: Sending unwelcome sexually explicit messages or images through digital platforms 
or social media can also be considered sexual harassment.

9. Retaliation for Rejecting Advances: Punishing or treating someone negatively after they have rejected 
sexual advances is a form of harassment.

10. Creating a Hostile Environment: Any behavior that contributes to an intimidating, offensive, or hostile 
atmosphere based on sex or gender is considered harassment.

### What would you do in case you face or witness any incident or repeated incidents of such behaviour?

Dealing with sexual harassment requires sensitivity, empathy, and a commitment to ensuring a safe environment 
for everyone involved. Here are some steps you can consider taking:

1. Ensure Safety: If you or anyone else is in immediate danger, prioritize safety and seek help from 
authorities or people nearby.

2. Document the Incident: If it's safe to do so, try to document the details of the incident, including 
dates, times, locations, and the individuals involved. This information may be useful later if you choose to 
take any formal actions.

3. Talk to the Person Involved (if comfortable): If you feel safe and comfortable doing so, directly address 
the behavior with the person responsible for the harassment. Sometimes, individuals may not be aware that 
their behavior is inappropriate. Communicate clearly that their actions are unwelcome and request that they 
stop.

4. Talk to a Trusted Person: Share the incident with someone you trust, such as a friend, family member, or 
colleague. Having emotional support and advice from someone you trust can be essential in processing the 
experience.

5. Report to Authorities or HR (if applicable): If the harassment occurs in a workplace or educational 
setting, report the incident to the appropriate authorities or Human Resources department. Many organizations 
have policies and procedures in place to address sexual harassment.

6. Utilize Support Resources: Seek support from organizations that deal with sexual harassment cases, such as 
sexual assault helplines, counseling services, or legal advice centers.

7. Encourage Witness Reporting: If you witness sexual harassment happening to someone else, encourage the 
victim to report the incident and offer to support them through the process.

8. Be Mindful of Victim Blaming: Avoid blaming victims of harassment. Remember that the responsibility for 
harassment lies solely with the perpetrator.

9. Educate Others: Help create awareness about sexual harassment and its impact on individuals and society. 
Encourage discussions and workshops on respectful behavior and consent.

10. Report Online Harassment: If the harassment occurs online, report it to the relevant platform or website 
administrators. Most online platforms have mechanisms for reporting abusive behavior.

11. Seek Legal Advice (if needed): If the harassment persists or escalates, you may want to consult with a 
legal professional to understand your rights and explore potential legal actions.